

--- Page 1 ---

You hear about
ICE activity —
NOW mn

ing accurate informatio
vuild rower: and curb pan



--- Page 2 ---

Communities across the country are on high alert. You
may hear about ICE sightings or arrests, but it may not
be clear whether it was actually ICE.

This is by design. ICE intentionally uses tactics (like not
identifying themselves or wearing clothes that look like
local police) so that it may not be clear whether they
are part of ICE.

lf you witness ICE activity, try to document the

following details so communities can better determine
whether it was actually ICE, and if so, to understand



--- Page 3 ---

WHO IS THE SOURCE?

Figuring out where the information is coming from can help
you determine the reliability of what you’ve heard.
Did your source witness what happened?

W® If not, did they hear it from someone who did?

w [f not, who is the actual information about the sighting/arrest

coming from?

If they aren't a witness, do they know anyone who would
have more information or know the family of the person
impacted?

W® Have they spoken with the witness directly?
Ww Did the witness take photographs or video of what they saw?

Ww Has the incident been reported to a local immigrant rights
organization or local elected officials?


--- Page 4 ---

WHAT HAPPENED?

Crucial facts to have to verify the information.

When did it happen?
® Date and Time
Where did it happen?

w® Address, if possible

e Cross streets or nearby landmark
e What kind of location? (For example: a home, school, shelter,
hospital, outdoor, etc.)

How many officers were present?

w Number of officers
e Where were they? (For example: 2-3 officers entered the house
while 5-6 waited on the street)


--- Page 5 ---

WHAT IF IT ISN'T CLEAR
THAT IT WAS ICE?

Even when you get all the details, it may not always be clear
whether it was ICE.

What can you do?

™® Contact your local elected officials’ office with the details
collected.

w® Reach out to your local immigrant rights group or community
organizers with the details collected.
e They may be able to determine whether the tactics described are
consistent with ICE practices on the ground.

e They may have also ideas of other agencies you can reach out to
for more information.

(=)


--- Page 6 ---

THINKING ABOUT SHARING WHAT
YOU SAW OR HEARD ON SOCIAL
MEDIA?

SHARE RESPONSIBLY!

Reach out to local organizers, mutual aid groups, immigrant rights
groups, and/or local elected officials to share the reports.

Although it may seem like ICE, it's possible that it wasn't actually ICE
and sharing or resharing the inaccurate information can cause more
fear.

Many groups are doing rapid response or ICEwatch and may have an
idea of the trends of local ICE practices - They may be able to
confirm whether it was ICE or not.

(3)


--- Page 7 ---

THINKING ABOUT SHARING WHAT
YOU SAW OR HEARD ON SOCIAL
MEDIA?

If you witnessed the arrest

WwW Reach out first to family members of the person arrested to
share what you saw.

W let them decide if they want to share what happened publicly.

If you decide to share on social media
Ww Dont use the names or identifying information of the person
arrested.
™® |f you have photos or videos, blur the faces of anyone in the

images. You don’t accidentally want to share the information
about the person arrested on the internet.

(3)


--- Page 8 ---

REMEMBER

You have rights
regardless of your
immigration status.

IMMIGRANTDEFENSEPROJECT.ORG/KYR

