

--- Page 1 ---

EMERGENCY | -
PREPAREDNESS

For Those at Risk of Deportation

OD



--- Page 2 ---

CRUCIAL INFORMATION TO
CARRY ON YOU AT ALL TIMES

This should be written down — do not rely on access to your phone

Medical information
¢ Contact information for your doctors
e List of medications you take, including names
and dosages

Childcare information
e Contact information for school
e Point of contact in case of detention

Legal information
¢ Contact information lawyers who have
represented you or agreed to represent you

Loved ones’ contact information

If you or a loved one could be at risk of an ICE arrest,
speak to an attorney for individualized advice.


--- Page 3 ---

IF YOU OR A LOVED ONE ARE S22
AT RISK OF DEPORTATION:

1. Organize your personal documents.

2. Get screened by a lawyer as soon as
possible to see if you are eligible for any
legal defenses against deportation (“relief”).

3. Plan for medical needs.
4.Plan for childcare needs.

5. Plan for financial needs.

If you or a loved one could be at risk of an ICE arrest,
speak to an attorney for individualized advice.


--- Page 4 ---

PERSONAL DOCUMENTS

e Keep original identity and personal
documents in a safe place.

e Make and store copies where someone you
trust can access them if you are detained.

Gather immigration and criminal
history documents

¢ Immigration: any applications submitted to
immigration or any documents showing your A#
(alien number), if you have one.

¢ Criminal: certificates of disposition from courts
and/or rap sheet.

If you or a loved one could be at risk of an ICE arrest,
speak to an attorney for individualized advice.


--- Page 5 ---

EN

GET SCREENED BY A LAWYER oe),

¢ Be careful of scams! Many nonprofits offer
free legal screenings across the country. Visit
immigrationadvocates.org/legaldirectory/ for a
list of local providers.

e Always keep your original documents.

¢ If hiring a lawyer:

o Always have a signed contract and make
sure to review the document in your
preferred language. Make sure both of you
sign the contract and you get a copy.

o Always get a second opinion before paying.
Get a receipt for payment (ideally pay by
check or money order instead of cash).

If you or a loved one could be at risk of an ICE arrest,
speak to an attorney for individualized advice.


--- Page 6 ---

MEDICAL NEEDS

e Write down crucial medical information to
carry with you, including doctors contact
information and any medications you take with
names and dosages.

e Identify someone you trust and arrange for
them to have access to your medical
information in case they need to provide it in
support of your legal case or so you have proper
medical care if detained.

¢ Something to consider: sign a HIPAA form to
give your trusted contact to access to your
medical files and allow your doctors to
communicate with them about your medical
needs.

If you or a loved one could be at risk of an ICE arrest,
speak to an attorney for individualized advice.


--- Page 7 ---

CHILDCARE NEEDS

e Write down crucial contact information for
childcare to carry with you.

e Identify someone who can care for your
children if you are detained. Make sure that
person agrees to act as a caretaker and has the
following information:

o School location and contact information.

o Any medical conditions your child has and
how to address their needs, contact
information for doctors, and information on
medications and/or allergies.

o Emergency contact information for other
loved ones.

If you or a loved one could be at risk of an ICE arrest,
speak to an attorney for individualized advice.


--- Page 8 ---

CHILDCARE NEEDS CONT'D

e Put important documents for each childina
safe place accessible to your emergency
caretaker, including:

0 Medical/school records

o Birth certificate

o Any legal agreements you have made with
your emergency caretaker.

¢ Something to consider: Consult with a lawyer
about whether a formal arrangement like power
of attorney or guardianship would benefit your
family. Please note: these arrangements can
carry risks because they can give others legally
cognizable power over your finances and
children.


--- Page 9 ---

FINANCIAL NEEDS

¢ Consult with an expert about whether to granta
loved one power to access your finances and
make financial decisions if you are detained.

e There is a special power of attorney form for
financial matters. This legal document allows a
loved one to do things like access your bank
account, pick up your paycheck, pay bills, and
use your money to pay bond.

If you or a loved one could be at risk of an ICE arrest,
speak to an attorney for individualized advice.


--- Page 10 ---

For more resources and forms to
prepare for an emergency, visit:

IMMIGRANTDEFENSEPROJECT.ORG/

EMERGENCY-PREPAREDNESS

If you or a loved one could be at risk of an ICE arrest,
speak to an attorney for individualized advice.
